[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> You guys taste the
breakfast we made?
>> (ALL) Yeah.
>> That they affectionately
called Jonny Chow.
Was it any good?
You guys like it?
>> (ALL)Yes.
>> Yeah?
Well, what you'll discover
from that what, you ate,
is that it's not going to
have the same type of response
in your body to a typical
meal, where you eat a lot
and then you have
a lot of energy,
and then an hour or
two hours later you're
tired and hungry again.
What you're going
to find is that it
stays it stays with you.
So when we take
a break for lunch
in a little while,
when you go eat lunch,
you're going to probably
notice that you're not
as hungry as you
otherwise would have been.
And you're going
to make probably
different food choices.
You're not going be looking for
that deep fried, quicky type
of thing.
You'll be able to make
more conscious choices.
So that's what you'll notice.
And one of my favorite parts
about coming to the seminar
is meeting people and hearing
their stories about some
of the successes that they've
had with The Gabriel Method
and bringing them up and
sharing with you their stories.
And there's just
a couple of people
that I wanted to call up before
we get started on this section.
One of them is someone
who I've talked
to via the internet a few
times and haven't met yet.
But I hear he's here.
And I'm really looking
forward to meeting him.
And that's Myles.
Myles is a-- if you're
here, are you here, Myles?
Can you come up?
Can you give Myles a hand?
[APPLAUSE]
Do you have a
microphone for Myles?
How're you doing?
>> Hey, Jon.
>> Good to meet you.
I think we got a--
do we-- we have a
picture of Myles too.
How do I do that?
Oh, there's Myles, yeah.
>> Yeah.
Congratulations, Myles.
>> Thank you.
[APPLAUSE]
>> Yeah, you look incredible.
So how much weight
have you lost?
>> 47 kilos now.
>> Wow.
[APPLAUSE]
>> Yeah.
And it's been a really,
really good journey.
I've really, really enjoyed it.
And you know, as
each parts come off,
feeling that much better,
that much healthier,
that much more active.
It's just-- oh, it's
been so fantastic.
And thank you so much, Jon,
for the book and everything.
>> Excellent.
>> It really has worked, and
that complete life change
as well.
Who knows where I'd be
further down the track
if I was still that sort of
overweight and struggling
person--
>> Amazing.
>> --without knowing all
those-- all the things.
All the things that
you teach, yeah.
>> Excellent.
Great.
[APPLAUSE]
>> Thanks very much.
>> Let me get a picture.
Can you get a picture?
>> Yeah, sure.
>> Just need a picture.
Can you get-- a picture of us.
That's all right.
We'll do it later.
[LAUGHTER]
>> OK, here.
Thanks.
Thanks, Myles.
>> Thanks.
[APPLAUSE]
>> And where's Trudy?
Trudy, can you come up?
We'll just do-- we're not
going to do this all day.
We'll just do a couple.
And maybe will do some later.
But I-- just, this is
definitely the fun part.
Not that it's not all fun.
Here's Trudy.
Can you tell us--
>> Hi.
Oh, my story is nowhere
near as dramatic,
because I didn't really
have a lot to lose.
But I was uncomfortable
in myself.
I was about 15 kilos overweight.
And most of that came on--
there was a lady earlier
who asked about whether you
put weight on at menopause.
Oh, yes you do.
Very suddenly, I put
on 10 kilos, 12 kilos.
And I just felt my
self-confidence plummeting.
And then a year ago, last
October, I read your book.
And the scales
fell from my eyes.
I thought, wow, can it
really be that simple?
And it is.
It was just absolutely amazing.
What I came to understand
was that I was nutritionally
starving myself.
And so I started to
add things to my diet,
like the flax seed and the
live food and the protein.
And instantly, the weight
started to fall off me.
It was just amazing.
And I think I was losing about
a kilo a week in the beginning.
So by Christmas, I
had lost 10 kilos.
And I think that I
also lost 10 years,
because I felt so much
more energized and just
youthful and vital.
It was just fantastic.
>> Excellent
>> And it's just kept
on going like that.
[APPLAUSE]
And-- I'm very happy.
>> Yes.
So we talked about how to
deal with mental and emotional
stress and-- oh, I'm
sorry, how to deal
with the physical stresses
that activate the fat programs.
And in my experience,
it's really essential
to give you more energy,
to nourish your body,
to deal with things like sleep
apnea and dehydration, toxins.
But also, in my experience,
mental and emotional stress,
dealing with mental
and emotional stress
is much, much, much
more important.
It causes those same
things like the ins--
causes your body to stop
listening to insulin.
It causes all these
other hormonal problems.
And when that happens, it's
not about food anymore.
And that's why
you can be looking
at this diet and that diet, and
all of these different things.
But if the stresses
in your life are
activating your fat programs,
that has to be addressed.
And just recently,
mainstream, modern day science
is starting to
acknowledge and understand
the importance of stress and
the connection between stress
and obesity.
And there was a show on
the ABC a couple of months
ago that I thought
was really good,
a documentary, that
kind of emphasized this.
And we're taking a little
bit of a clip from that.
And I just want to
run that right now
before we start talking about
stress and how to deal with it.
So can we run that clip?
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
- This is cardiologist Jeffrey
Ritterman's regular commute.
- You can learn a lot about
the stress and health outcome
just from the
neighborhoods you visit.
And in this neighborhood, the
life expectancy is quite good.
And most of the people
are pretty healthy.
And as we reach the
top to the hill,
it gets to be a little
bit less privileged.
And as we make this
transition, the social status
begins to drop.
And correspondingly,
in those areas,
the health outcome
is much worse.
And these people are not
going to have the same life
expectancy as the people
in the middle class
area we started in.
People are on guard.
People are vigilant.
They're living a
more stressful life.
This is a community that
produces high stress hormones
in people.
And over time, it
takes its toll.
- One of Dr. Ritterman's
patients is 65-year-old
Emmanuel Johnson.
His career?
Guidance counselor in one
of America's most dangerous
neighborhoods.
- Well, last year, I
think we had 47 homicides.
In the last four days, we had
11 shootings, three deaths.
- Get ready and--
- And I did know, nine
times out of 10, it's
going to be a relative of
someone that the kids know.
- For Emmanuel Johnson, there
is a price for chronic exposure
to this stress.
- Five years ago I
had a heart attack.
I'm a diabetic too.
I have to work on it
constantly, because I've
been in this business 20 years.
So it's just-- it's stressful
just working the job.
So over the years, the
cholesterol, the blood
pressure, sugar came on
later, but distress was always
there long before they came on.
- Emanuel Johnson's
body may be telling
yet another story of stress.
The Whitehall Study in England
found an incredible link
between stress, your position
in the social hierarchy,
and how you put on weight.
- So it may not be just
putting on weight, but also
the distribution of that weight.
And the distribution
of that weight,
putting it on around
the center, is related
to position in the hierarchy.
And that in turn may be related
to chronic stress pathways.
- So we said, does
that happen in monkeys?
Because they organize
themselves in a hierarchy too.
And it turns out that it does.
Subordinate monkeys
are more likely to have
fat in their abdomen than
are dominant monkeys.
I think the most
amazing observation
that I've made in my lab is this
idea that stress could actually
change the way you
deposit fat on your body.
To me, that was a bizarre idea,
that you could actually alter
the way fat is distributed.
- Sapolsky, Shively,
and others think
stress could be a critical
factor in the global obesity
epidemic.
Even worse, fat brought on
by stress is dangerous fat.
- We know that fat
carried on the trunk
or actually inside the
abdomen is much worse for you
than fat carried
elsewhere on the body.
It behaves differently.
It produces different kinds
of hormones and chemicals
and has different
effects on your health.
Whatever it is that
works for an individual,
they need to value
stress reduction.
I think the problem
in our society
is that we don't value
stress reduction.
We, in fact, value the opposite.
We admire the person who,
not only multitasks and does
two things at once, but
does five things at once.
We kind of admire that person.
How do they manage that?
Well, that's incredibly
stressful way to live.
We have to change our
values and value people
who understand a
balanced and serene life.
[END PLAYBACK]
>> So stress basically--
stress causes chemistry.
So every time you have any type
of mental and emotional stress,
it's going to cause real
physical, tangible chemistry
in your body.
And stress is an
alarm to your body.
It's saying, something's wrong.
There's a threat out there.
Do something.
And every time you have
stress, your body you've
always does three things--
I R A. It Interprets the stress.
It Reacts to the stress.
And it Adapts to the stress.
So if you were living
outdoors 1,000 years ago
and you're chased by
a tiger, your body
has to interpret the stress.
What's the stress?
Tiger, right?
What's the reaction?
Run like hell.
Right?
What's the adaptation?
Get thin.
The adaptation, get thin,
get strong, get fast,
so that the next time
that tiger comes,
you are better adapted
to your environment.
You are more able and suited
to surviving the threat.
So what's the survival threat?
How do we react to it?
How do we adapt to it?
If you were in a famine,
the interpretation,
famine; the reaction,
get hungry, slow down;
your metabolism, store fat;
the adaptation, get fatter.
So that the next time there's a
famine, you will have adapted.
You are more able to
survive the threat.
Now, when you're
sitting at your desk
and you're watching the
stock market and it tanks,
you're sending a survival
threat, chemical message
to your body.
What's the interpretation?
Who the hell knows.
Your body doesn't know
what a stock market is.
It doesn't know
what up or down is.
It doesn't know what a job is.
It doesn't know what a
mortgage is, a credit card.
What's the interpretation?
I don't know.
Is it a famine?
Is it a tiger?
Who knows.
What's the reaction?
Well, if it thinks it's
a famine, you get hungry.
You slow down, you get fatter.
And your body wants to be fed.
If it thinks it's a tiger,
your blood starts pumping.
You're ready to run.
You're ready to fight.
And you get thinner.
And this is going on all
the time, all day long.
Every time you have a thought--
how am I going to make my
mortgage payment, what's
going to happen when boss is
mad at me, how are my kids going
to graduate from college--
every time you have a thought,
you're causing chemistry.
And your body's reacting to it.
And more importantly,
it's adapting to it.
Every time you have stress,
your body's thinking,
do I get fatter or thinner?
And for some of us, the
adaptation is fatter.
So chronic stress can, for
some people, in some instances,
cause a kind of chronic
situation, where these stress
hormones are chronically
elevated in the same pattern
as if you were in a famine.
If you're in a famine day in
and day out, you're hungry.
It's causing that same thing.
So it'll trick your body.
So chronic stress
has to be dealt with.
We can talk about
flax seeds from now
until the next century,
and if chronic stress
is active in your fat
programs, it's not
going to do anything for you.
It'll help a little.
It'll give you a
little more energy.
It will deal with this
insulin problem a little bit.
It'll make you clear and
hopefully get off medication
and now make you less stressful.
But it's not going to
do with the real issue.
So we need techniques and tools
for dealing with the real issue
of chronic stress.
That's one area.
So one area is chronic stress.
We need techniques,
tools, and strategies
to deal with chronic stress.
The other-- and this is for
people that have serious
problems and lifetime
weight problems and is much,
much more important--
is something I call
emotional obesity.
Emotional obesity is different
than emotional eating.
Emotional eating is
eating because you're
tired, lonely, sad,
whatever, frustrated, bored.
That's emotional eating,
and everybody does that.
Emotional obesity
is the actual need
to be fat in order to feel safe.
I had that.
I had emotional obesity.
And it wasn't until
I was able to deal
with the emotional obesity
that I was able to lose weight.
I felt safer being thin.
Do remember I told you before
that I had this business
partner that was angry,
aggressive, and throwing
things?
I was really uncomfortable
around this person.
He reminded me of
situations when I was a kid.
There was a person
in my life that
used to used to beat
me up on a daily basis
when I was a kid, that
was very similar to him
in his temperament
and his disposition.
And I have these childhood
memories, these childhood
associations.
And when you have childhood
trauma or past trauma,
it actually gets locked
into the cells of your body.
It's like your cells
have a conscious memory
of these things.
And you can talk
about it forever.
But on a cellular
level, you're still
going to have that
fear until you
learn how to deal with the
issue on a cellular level.
So I had that.
I had this fear, I
had this discomfort.
And he was triggering me and
triggering me, triggering me.
And the whole time I
was with him, I felt--
I actually felt safer
being thinner for two--
fatter for two reasons.
One, because I was creating like
a buffer between me and him.
It's almost like the
same way fat protects you
from a hostile environment,
like cold weather,
it insulates your
organs, fat protects you
from a hostile, negative
space, a hostile, negative
environment.
It also protects
you energetically.
Because when somebody is
angry and hostile and abusive,
they're giving out
negative energy.
Thoughts are energies.
And we all know that now.
There's been lots of documented
studies, like Dr. Masaru
Emoto's "Messages from
Water," how thoughts
can change water molecules.
Thoughts are tangible energies.
And fat protects you
from negative energy.
And the way I
discovered this was
when I was over 400
pounds, or 180 kilos,
I went to get a chest X-ray.
And the X-ray didn't show up.
The fat had absorbed
the radiation,
or the negative energy.
So when somebody is negative
at you, fat's absorbing that.
It's a buffer.
It protects you.
I felt safer.
Also, the bigger
I got, the safer
I felt against if anything
ever became violent against us.
Now, it never did, and
that wasn't his nature
to actually be physical.
He was just angry.
But when I was younger,
I had the associations
of being abused physically.
And I had a cellular memory.
So it was triggering that.
The bigger I got,
the safer I found.
Eventually, I was
twice his size.
I wasn't afraid of him.
I could sit on him.
[LAUGHTER]
I could squash him
like a pancake.
I wasn't afraid of him.
But I felt safer
with the weight.
And as long as you feel
safer with the weight,
nothing else is going to
work but dealing with that.
Your body's trying
to protect you.
It doesn't know what
the interpretation is.
It doesn't know.
It only knows that you
feel safe for being thin--
being fat.
So it's going to activate
this famine response.
That's all it knows.
And that has to be dealt with.
And emotional obesity
is a little bit
like, you know how sometimes
you're looking for your keys
and you have a feeling
they're under the bed,
but you don't feel like bending
down and going under the bed
and looking for it.
So you look in the same
places over and over again.
I do this all the time.
And you look on your
kitchen counter,
your table, your closet.
You keep going to
the same places
over and over and over again.
But it's not until you actually
bend down and go under the bed
and get the keys
that you find them.
And you will not have your
keys until you find them.
Emotional obesity
is the same thing.
I would rather you
spent all of your time
working on emotional obesity,
if you have the slightest
hint that you have it,
than anything else I'm
talking about, because
everything else will
fall into place once you
feel safer being thin.
And you know if you have
emotional obesity usually.
But there's always
kind of like a test.
Like, I remember one
time, the first time
I gave a big talk in Perth
was at the Burswood theater
and there was--
I was invited there.
It wasn't a seminar I was doing.
But there's hundreds of people,
maybe 500 or 600 people.
I'd never given a talk before.
And it was a really
exciting experience for me.
And afterwards, I
had this lady, she
was emailing me all the time.
Oh, you're a genius.
Nothing's ever worked for me.
Every-- my clothes are
just falling off me.
I have to buy new
clothes, blah, blah, blah.
And every week, she's
sending me an email.
And then one day, she
sends me an email.
She goes, oh, I had
a really bad week.
She said, I remember I was
walking down the street
and somebody said to
me, oh, you look great.
And I freaked out.
I couldn't handle that.
And I had a bad--
And she just said that.
I said, well, let's
talk, because I
knew what was going on.
And sure enough, when she
was a teenager, for example,
she had a date that
went out of control.
And that was a really
painful experience for her.
And ever since
then, she just feels
really uncomfortable
being attractive,
because she doesn't want
to repeat that experience.
Well, if that's the case, your
body's going to protect you.
So if you're losing the
weight, you're losing weight,
but you're not
addressing the fact
that your body wants
to be fat, you're
just driving with the
emergency brake on.
It's the whole
crux of the issue.
And I had another lady, the
first time I was on television,
she called me and she told me a
story she'd never told anyone.
And that was that when
she was 10 years old,
she was being abused
by a babysitter.
And it was actually
a female babysitter.
And the whole time
she was being abused--
this went on for three years--
she was gaining weight
and gaining weight
and gaining weight.
Eventually, she
gained so much weight
that the babysitter
stopped abusing her.
The babysitter goes, oh,
my god, you're so gross
and stopped abusing her.
But in that instance, fat
really did protect her.
Fat saved her life,
when no one else could.
And now 30 years down the road,
what do you think's happening?
Every time she loses
weight on a diet,
something happens, she freaks
out, she gains the weight.
What's freaking out is,
on a cellular level,
she doesn't feel
safe being thin.
That has to be addressed.
And I have kind of a quick way
now, when I talk to people,
I can zero in pretty quickly.
Sometimes I'll talk
to someone, I'll
say, OK, how much weight
do you want to lose?
I want to lose 40 kilos
and blah, blah, bah.
I go, OK, I want you to imagine
you're walking down the street
and you're in your
perfect ideal shape.
And everything's flowing in
your life, and it's beautiful,
and all this kind of stuff.
How do you feel?
I feel great.
Great.
So now you're walking
down the street.
And you know what?
You've got so much
energy coming out of you.
And you just look
so beautiful, you're
so attractive that people
can't help but notice you.
That's all.
They're just noticing you.
You're walking down the
street, they're turning.
They can't help but look at you.
How do you feel now?
A lot of times, people will say,
oh, I'm not feeling so good.
Or some people say, no,
I don't like that at all.
I don't want attention.
And then sometimes I imagine
I bring them up on stage,
oh, you don't get attention?
OK.
So imagine you're up on stage
and there's thousands of people
there.
And there's a spotlight
on you and they're just
looking at you.
How do you feel now?
And I try to bring
it out of them.
And if there's the slightest
bit of uncomfortableness--
and you can try this--
if there's the slightest
bit of discomfort,
then you've got--
then your body,
it's not-- you're
not comfortable.
You're not comfortable
with the weight.
And you could be a male or
female for various reasons.
Sometimes, when I'm
working with you and I say,
well, just imagine these
beautiful white wings are
wrapped around you and that
people are looking at you,
but those wings
are shielding you.
How do you feel now?
And then instantly it changes.
And you've given
your body a message,
you've communicated to your
body that there's a way
to protect you without the fat.
Or a big column of light
that's protecting you.
And we're going to do that.
When we do a
visualization soon, I'll
include that in
the visualization,
so you can see what that's like.
But just different tools,
visualization tools,
for communicating
that you're thin.
So you have to deal with these
two things in different ways.
But the chronic stress
has to be dealt with.
And the emotional obesity
And there's different
ways to do it.
Then it's just a
question of application.
But for the chronic stress,
the best way to deal with it
is some sort of visualization
or meditation on a daily basis--
before you go to
sleep at night, like
listening to the
visualization CD
that I put together, and then
first thing in the morning.
Meditation inhibits the
signals in your brain
to a part of your brain
called the amygdala,
which is the seat of
fear and aggression.
And so it helps you
live a lower stress life
and does so many
other things, which
I'd love to talk more about.
Which by the way,
people keep asking me
when I'm doing another seminar.
The next thing we're doing is
going to be at the end of March
in Kiama.
We're going to do like a
three- or four-day retreat,
where I can get into
this much deeper.
There's a lot more
that meditation
does for you that I don't have
time to get into right now.
But we're going to be doing
meditations, visualizations.
We're going to be doing
various super delicious,
super nutritious recipes.
So it's going to
in Kiama, which is
New South Wales at the end of
March, so a three-day retreat.
We'll spend three
full days together,
going over everything.
And I'll talk there
more about meditation.
But meditation does so many
incredibly powerful things
for you.
But one of the
things it does is it
makes you feel safer
and reduces stress.
So on a daily basis,
doing some sort
of meditation or visualization,
which we're going
to do in just a little while.
And then dealing with
emotional obesity,
now that's a little
bit more tricky.
That's one of those things that
either it happens like this,
or it may take months, or it
may be a long time journey.
But when it happens, it's done.
But it has to be dealt with.
And I've had some
really good successes
with emotional obesity
referring people to different
what I call energetic healers.
And those are people that
where you work with them
and they help go back
through a childhood issue.
And once you've gone
through the childhood issue,
they work through it
on an energetic level
to help yourselves release it.
Finding an energy healer
won't-- another way to do it is,
if you go a health food store
and you look on the billboard
and you look at different
pictures of people,
and you just see one that's
offering some sort of healing
technique, someone
that you resonate with,
that you feel safe with,
that you feel like they know
something, contact them.
But you have to release the
trauma on a cellular level.
And that involves some work.
But that has to be done.
And again, when we do more
the intensive, like in Kiama,
and also we're going to do a
five-day retreat in Thailand
in August, which we're
just putting together,
which I'm very excited about,
we can do more trauma release
work.
But there's a lot
of great therapists
and healers out there
that deal with trauma.
But if you can
trigger your weight--
I always-- the first
question I always
ask people is, when
did your weight start?
When I was five years old,
when I was 20 years old, when
I was 30 years old.
Really?
What was going on?
Well, my father was an
alcoholic and he beat me.
Or my uncle abused me.
Or we moved away.
Or there was a divorce,
there was cancer,
there was a car accident.
I started uni.
My grandfather died.
Whatever it was, if there's
a trigger to when your weight
started, that's not
a chemical trigger--
like I started taking medication
or something like that--
but if there's a trigger to
when your weight started,
then that's where you go.
You've got to deal
with that issue.
Whether it was five
years ago, last month,
or when you're
three years old, you
have to deal with that issue.
So both of these things--
chronic stress and emotional
stress and emotional obesity--
really come down to
how safe you feel.
If you could feel like an
inherent feeling of safety,
whether right or
wrong, when your boss
is yelling at you, if
you're feeling safe,
you're not sending the messages.
If your partner is upset
at you or might leave you
or some other
thing is happening,
if you're feeling
safe, you're not
sending the chemical messages.
So from a weight
perspective, nothing
is more important
than feeling safe.
If you're feeling safe and
someone said, you look great,
or they're looking at you,
it doesn't intimidate you
or cause those feelings.
An inherent feeling of safety
is in essence the greatest
gift you can give yourself.
And you can program
that in through--
again, through a
visualization that we're
going to do in a little while.
You can program that
feeling of safety.
But just understanding--
if you could also
formulate a belief system,
a feeling of safety,
because the world
is a safe place,
then you've taken
care of the issue too.
And being able to change
your beliefs to suit
you is one of the great--
is an incredible thing you
can do to make you feel safe.
Changing your beliefs
instantly changes
your emotional
environment, instantly
makes you feel less
stressful, less fearful.
And I'm just going to give
you a perfect example.
So let's say it's 12 o'clock
in the afternoon on a Monday
morning and you're supposed
to meet your spouse for lunch.
And it's a beautiful day.
And you're sitting out and
having a drink of water
and just loving it.
And it's 12:15, and
they're still not there.
And it's 12:30, and
And then it's 12:45, and
they're still not there.
And then it's 1 o'clock,
and they show up.
And they come out
and they go, oh, hi,
how are you, dah, dah, dah,
what a great day, dah, dah, dah.
And how are you feeling?
You're just like,
fine, whatever, right?
And you're upset,
and you're angry.
And she has no
respect for my time.
And he always does this to me.
And all of these negative
thoughts and feelings
are going through your head
that are causing stress,
activating your fat programs.
And you're sitting there at
a restaurant, having water,
you're not eating anything,
and you're still getting fat.
Right?
[LAUGHTER]
And then they show up, and
they say, hi, how are you.
And you go, fine.
And they go, what's wrong?
And you go, what's wrong?
You're an hour late.
You know I was to be
here blah, blah, blah.
And they say, I'm
not an hour late.
It's 12 o'clock.
Daylight savings ended
yesterday, remember?
[LAUGHTER]
You didn't turn your clock back.
You were wrong.
So what changed?
In an instance, where did
all those feelings go?
Those feelings of he has
no respect for my time,
and she always does
this to me, and it's
all his fault and all her
fault, where did that all go?
Gone in an instant.
You change your assumption or
beliefs about the situation,
and instantly, all of
the feelings change.
The stress goes
away in an instant.
Let's take another example.
Let's say that it's 1
o'clock, and they show up,
and they really
are an hour late.
And you're angry.
And they go, what's wrong?
And then they say, yeah, you're
right, I am an hour late.
But you know what?
Tomorrow's your birthday.
And I was getting you
the car of your dreams.
And the paperwork took
a little bit longer
than I thought I would.
[LAUGHTER]
And they hand you the keys.
And how do you feel now?
I remember I was
doing this summer--
when I said that, one
lady goes, suspicious.
[LAUGHTER]
I said, yeah, you've been
married for a long time.
I can tell.
Yeah.
Change your assumptions
around the situation,
and instantly, where did all
those negative emotions go?
All that pain, all that
anger, all that betrayal,
all that feeling like a
victim, all the wrongdoing,
gone in an instant.
If you change your feelings and
assumptions about the world,
instantly all the
stress goes away.
So if you could develop just
an inherent feeling of safety
based on a belief system that
supported that, then all day
long, you're feeling safe.
And all day long, you're
not causing all this stress
that's activating your fat
programs, if you could just
do that one thing.
And so for me--
people kill and die
for their beliefs.
For me, beliefs are just tools.
I don't care if my
beliefs are right.
I would never defend my beliefs.
No one else has to believe them.
I just care if they support me.
And I do have a belief
system that supports me,
because I do have a feeling
of safety about my life
and about my place
in the universe.
I feel safe.
I didn't always.
I do now.
But I do feel safe.
And one of the reasons is
I developed just a feeling
about the universe that maybe
this isn't all there is.
Maybe there's a part of us
that just lives forever,
and we're on a journey.
And that's not--
I don't want you to
adopt my beliefs.
You don't have to--
I'm not selling you
a belief system.
But I want to introduce
a concept to you
and just have you have the
thought that, if you could
somehow develop a
feeling of safety
around the world
that's it going to make
you feel-- it's going
to make you lose weight,
whether it's right or wrong.
So I remember
about 15 years ago,
I was reading a story about all
these billionaires in Russia,
and how they had all
this money and they
didn't know what to do with it.
So there was a service
in Russia for $50,000.
You pay this service, you pay
them $50,000 for the right
to go out and be homeless.
You have to live on the street.
You have to fend for
yourself, find food, sleep,
shelter, all these things.
They will watch
you and make sure
that you don't get killed
or harmed in any way.
So you're being monitored.
But other than that,
you're on your own.
And I thought, why
would somebody do that?
Why would they come
to this hostile place
and pretend when they
had all this money?
The reason they did that is
because once they got back
to the penthouse, and all
their servants, would you
like some more peeled grapes,
sir, and all of these things,
they had a greater
appreciation for what
it meant to be a billionaire.
For their money and
for their luxuries,
they had a greater appreciation.
And you read all these
books and spiritual books,
new age books,
whatever they are,
and then everyone talks
about how we're this immortal
being on a journey.
And maybe it's true,
maybe it's not.
I don't care if it is.
But what if it was.
And what if we were
on this immortal--
what if we were these infinite
beings or an immortal journey,
and coming to this
planet is part of that?
I thought to myself,
why would we do that?
Why would we come to
a place like this?
And then I realized
that it's really--
being on a place like Earth
is really the best gift
you can give yourself.
If you really are an
immortal, eternal being
and you can have any
experience you want,
then it just stands to reason
that sooner or later you'd
come to a place where you
had the illusion of being
a limited being, of
having to fight for love,
money, resources, to having
a body that could die or be
harmed, having all these
horrible things that could
happen to you, being
unsafe, it just
stands to reason that you would
come to a place like this.
And part of the deal is
you would voluntarily
agree to forgetting who you
really were, because otherwise
you lose the whole point.
So it's like an adventure.
You forget who you are.
You sign off to amnesia.
And you go and you live
in this place, where
you have to fight
for everything,
where everything is unsafe,
where life could end.
Why would you do that?
Well, once you came
back, you would
remember who you truly were.
And you would remember
what an incredible gift
it is that you're
infinite, immortal,
that love is everywhere,
that support is everywhere,
and that your true nature
you never really die.
It just makes sense.
And so I adopted a
belief system like this,
simply because it serves me.
And I don't care if
it's right or wrong.
And I don't care if it conflicts
with anyone else's beliefs.
Nothing about it matters
to me, except for the fact
that I feel safe.
If something were to
happen to me and I die,
I feel like I live forever.
I feel like a part
of me keeps going.
If some horrible thing happened
to me as a child, well,
maybe I wanted that to happen.
Maybe I agreed.
Maybe I knew what
was going to happen.
Maybe I wanted it to happen.
That's inconceivable--
some of the things
that I went through
and some of the things
that other people go through.
And I went through
nothing compared
to what some people go through.
Why would you do that?
Maybe just to have
the experience,
because you're in an infinite,
immortal being, maybe.
So I have adopted a belief
like that, that makes
me feel safe all the time.
And I can tell you, I feel safe.
You put me wherever
you want, I feel safe.
I feel like I live forever.
Maybe it's true.
Maybe it isn't.
And I don't want
you to adopt it,
certainly not if it conflicts
with your own personal beliefs.
But I do want you
to adopt a belief
system that supports safety.
And there's a
simple way to do it.
And we're going to talk
about it right now.
And that is to do a simple
visualization that programs
a feeling of safety in you.
Simply by, when you're in
a state of deep meditation,
or what I call smart
mode, which I talk about,
when you're in that
state, just by having
your cells of your body
repeat over and over again,
safe, safe, safe, you're
programming that consciousness
on a cellular level
into your body.
So that you don't know why, but
your boss is yelling at you,
and you just don't
feel that bad about it.
Maybe you get the work done the
same way as if you had fear,
but you don't have
a fear anymore.
You just react differently
to whatever the situation is.
And visualization
does so much for you
from a weight loss perspective.
Visualizations are like a way
of communicating to your body
that you need to turn
off the fat programs,
that you need to be thin,
because your body doesn't
speak English.
It can't say to you--
the part of your brain that's
in charge of the fat programs,
you can't say to it,
I want to lose weight
because I won't look good
for a wedding in six months.
Your brain doesn't
what a wedding is.
It doesn't matter six months is,
doesn't know what looking good
is.
It just knows safe and not safe.
One of the biggest problems
we have-- and nobody even
knows that we have
it-- is we don't know
how to talk to our own brain.
We have a part of
our brain that's
totally in charge
of how fat or thin
we are, does not understand
the stresses of our life.
And we don't know
how to talk to it.
But how do you talk
to someone that
doesn't speak your language?
Imagine you're in
a foreign country
and you have to
go to the toilet,
and no one speaks your language.
And you can ask
1,000 people, where's
the toilet, where's the
toilet, where's the toilet,
nobody will help you.
The second you take maybe a
napkin and draw a bathroom,
a picture of a toilet, anyone
can help you, instantly.
Pictures are the infinite--
are the universal
language when people
don't speak your language.
Pictures are the way you
communicate with someone that
doesn't speak your language.
And we've got a brain that's
in total control of how
fat or thin we are.
And guess what?
It doesn't speak English.
And that's huge.
That means that a part of you
that's in total control of you,
you can't communicate.
But when you make a visual
image of exactly the way
you'd like to look and
you do it in a place
where you're calm and quiet
so that you can communicate,
your body understands.
And when I was losing
weight, I made a visual image
of exactly the way I wanted
to look from the very start.
People would have
said I was crazy.
2 and 1/2 years later, I
became exactly that image,
down to the T. I don't
think that's a coincidence.
People use visualization for--
Arnold Schwarzenegger
when he was a bodybuilder
used visualization.
Olympic athletes
use visualization.
You can use visualization
for business, success,
all these types of things.
So I want to do a
visualization with you that
does a number of things--
one, makes you feel safer,
reduces stress, helps you
communicate to your body
that you don't need fat anymore,
that you need to be thin,
that it's getting the
stresses wrong, deals
with specific emotional
obesity issues,
so that you feel
safer being thin,
helps you become
clearer, more focused,
and enables you to also
improve your relationships,
your financial position, and
helps strengthen your mind,
and help you achieve
whatever you want.
So if you're interested
in joining me,
I'd ask you just to
stand up for a minute.
And just like this with your
shoulders and left them down.
And go like this with your
shoulders and let them down.
hands, turned to the right,
to the right.
Turn to your right.
Go like this on the shoulders
on the person in front of you.
Give them a good rub.
They've been listening all day.
Really rub in.
That's good, yeah.
Don't worry, you'll get yours.
[LAUGHTER]
And go like this, turn to
your left, return the favor.
OK?
And let's just sit down.
And that's really all you need.
You don't the visualization.
That's really all
you'll need, is
just to have someone give you
a good massage every morning.
So the first thing
we're going to do
is something I call
spinning the spine.
I talk about it in the book.
It's a beam of light going
up your spine to put you
in a very powerful state.
So if you just imagine--
if you sit up straight
and close your eyes.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
And you can put your hands
together own your legs.
[INHALES] Keep
your tongue lightly
touching the top of your
mouth and move your mouth just
like that.
[INHALES] And we're
just going to imagine
that there's a ball of light
at the base of your spine,
like a marble or a golf ball.
It's a ball of white lights.
And it's just spinning around
the base of your spine.
[INHALES] [EXHALES]
And as it's spinning around
the base of your spine,
the base of your
spine is glowing
with bright white lights.
[INHALES] [EXHALES] And we're
just going to imagine this ball
of light going up your spine
one vertebrae at a time.
And there's 24
vertebrae in your spine.
You don't need to know
exactly where they are.
Just going up one vertebra
to the first vertebra,
it's winding around
the vertebra.
And you're feeling
that vertebra start
to glow with white lights.
And then the next
vertebra, second vertebra,
and the third vertebra, and the
fourth, and the fifth vertebra.
And the fifth vertebra
is probably around
behind your navel.
So you can just imagine
that those first five
vertebrae are glowing
with bright white light.
And it's clearing out any
blockages in your vertebrae,
in your spine.
And this bright white
light goes up some more
to your sixth vertebra
and the seventh vertebra.
Don't need to know exactly
where they are, just up a notch.
Eighth vertebra,
it's spinning around.
It's clearing out any blockages.
It's causing your spine to glow.
The ninth vertebra,
10th vertebra,
[INHALES] 11th vertebra, 12th.
It's coming up to close
to behind your heart.
13th, 14th vertebra, probably
right behind your heart.
So your spine from
your heart down
is glowing with
bright white light.
It's like a liquid light.
It's becoming liquid.
15th vertebra, 16th, 17th.
It's probably just at
the base of your spine--
base of your neck.
So your whole spine
[INHALES] from your neck
down is glowing with
bright white light.
[INHALES]
And this ball of light
goes into your neck,
into your 18th vertebra
and 19th vertebra.
And lines up your neck,
20th, 21st, 22nd, 23rd,
and 24th vertebra.
So your whole spine is glowing
with bright white light,
like liquid lights.
And it feels really nice.
All the energy that goes
up and down the spine
is moving proper.
Everything's
flowing in the body.
And this bright white
light goes into your head
and starts to repair all
the cells in your brain,
so that they're communicating
properly and clearing out
any blockages, so you can
think clearly and feel clearly.
And everything's
communicating properly.
And this white light is
spinning around your brain
and your head,
energizing and repairing.
[INHALES] [EXHALES]
And you can just imagine
that bright white light is
in your forehead now and goes
into your face and your eyes.
And all the facial muscles
and tendons are relaxing.
Your face is relaxing.
And if you touch your tongue
to the roof of your mouth,
you might feel this
bright light going
from the roof of your
mouth into your tongue.
And you'll feel a trickle of
energy as the ball of light
goes into your tongue.
And it goes into your
tongue and into your throat.
And it's energizing
your throat center,
giving you the power to speak
your mind and your heart.
And this ball of white
light is glowing and going
down into your heart
center and your chest.
And so your heart is glowing
with bright white light.
And as your heart is glowing
with bright white light,
it's energizing your blood.
So your blood becomes like
a silver bright white light
that's traveling through your
body, unblocking any blockages
and energizing
all of your cells.
So as this bright light travels
through your bloodstream,
all of your cells start to glow
with the bright white lights.
[INHALES] [EXHALES] So your
whole body is glowing with
bright white lights.
[INHALES] [EXHALES]
And as your body,
every cell in your body now
is growing with bright white
light, just imagine that
every cell in your body says
at the same time in unison,
safe, safe, I am safe,
I am safe, I am safe.
And let your body let go of
anything it's holding onto.
Imagine every cell of your body
is saying at the same time,
I forgive, I forgive,
I let go, I am safe.
And feel that feeling of
safety being programmed
into every cell in your body.
And I'd like you to
imagine that there's
a column of bright white
light coming from the ceiling
and wrapping around you, so that
you'd have a feeling of safety,
or maybe even some
beautiful white wings
of an angel wrapping around your
body, so that you feel safe.
You feel protected.
You feel nurtured.
And then I'd like you to imagine
that this ball of white light
goes into your navel and starts
circulating around your navel.
And as it's circulating
around your navel,
it becomes like a
whirlpool or a vortex,
becomes like a
whirlpool or a vortex.
And it's sucking all the energy
into it from all over your body
into this whirlpool or vortex.
I'd like you to imagine that
any excess weight you have
on your body also
becomes like a liquid,
like a liquid white light.
Any extra fat on your body
becomes a liquid white light.
And it starts to be
sucked into this vortex.
So any extra weight
that you have
is being sucked
into this vortex,
never to be heard from again.
So as you're sitting
there, the weight
is just dissolving
all of you, being
sucked into a whirlpool
in your navel,
so that no excess
weight is on your body.
And you have this
column of light
from the sky protecting you,
or these angel wings protecting
you.
You don't need the
weight anymore.
You have protection.
You are safe, and you feel safe
at every level of your being.
You don't need the weight.
And so now you're sitting
there with no excess weight
on your body.
All the excess weight has just
been sucked into your navel,
never to be seen again.
And I'd like you to imagine that
in your mind's eye you get up
and you're walking on the beach.
And it's a beautiful sunny day.
And you're in your
perfect ideal shape,
because all the
weight's gone, it's
all been sucked into your
navel through this vortex.
And you're at the beach.
And you're feeling
sun on your skin.
And maybe you put
some lotion on.
And you can feel that your skin
is tanned and toned and tight.
And your stomach is flat.
And you can see the
definition in your muscles,
if that's what you wants.
And you're walking on
the beach, and you're
in your most
perfect ideal shape.
How does that feel?
You have a body
that's thin and light.
And you can feel the
cool water on your feet
from the ocean and the
warm sun on your shoulders.
And you can feel the
breeze in your hair
and the smell of
sand and coconut oil.
And it feels so nice.
And you're walking
a little bit faster.
And eventually, because
you have so much energy,
you start to run.
And you're running on the beach,
just because you can, maybe
like you've never run before.
And you're running quicker
and quicker and quicker.
And you're kicking up water
and splashing as you run.
And eventually, you
turn toward the water,
you jump over a wave, and
you dive in the water.
And you feel the cool refreshing
water on your shoulders.
And it feels so good.
And you jump up in the air.
And you feel alive.
And you feel like
this is me, this
is my most perfect
natural state.
And you feel safe and protected.
And you can let
go of the weight.
You don't need it anymore.
[INHALES] [EXHALES]
And then just imagine
now that you're
sitting back in the room.
And you've taken that
experience with you.
Your skin feels amazing.
And you're toned and tight.
And you're in your
perfect ideal shape.
And I want you to imagine
what your life's going
to be like over the
next couple of days,
how people are going to notice
how much vibrance you have.
And I want you to feel that
protection around here.
Maybe it's these huge beautiful
angel wings protecting you.
Or maybe it's a
column of light coming
from the sky that impenetrable
and protecting you.
And you can notice how
your life is flowing.
Your family life, any business
meetings that you have,
everything is starting to flow.
And maybe how in
six months from now,
you're doing exactly what
you're meant to be doing.
And you've got so much energy.
And you're light and fit.
And people are amazed.
And you're talking
in a presentation
or at work in a meeting, and
you've got so much energy
coming out of you.
And people are spellbound by
your power, and your beauty,
and your energy, and your
vibrance, and how fit you are.
And so life and your
career is flowing.
People only want to
do business with you.
And family life,
your relationships
with your loved ones are
all beautiful and flowing
and your kids.
And you've got energy to
run and play with your kids.
And everything in
your life is fine.
And I want you to
take this image of you
six months down the road, or in
your most perfect ideal shape,
in your most perfect
career, incredibly
successful, happy,
flowy, fit, vibrant.
Everything in your life
is exactly what you want.
I want you to see that image.
And let that image be programmed
into every cell of your body.
Imagine every cell of your body
having that image and it going
into the DNA of your body.
So you're programming
yourself and your DNA
to become this image.
And I want you to imagine that,
as you go to sleep at night,
you have this image of you--
safe, flowing, protected, fit,
vibrant, successful, happy--
and that that image
is like a magnet.
And it's pulling you,
so that every decision
you make from here on in,
whether you turn left or right
or talk to this person or
that person, everything that's
happening in your life
happens because you're
being guided to your most
perfect, ideal, body, life,
shape, existence in every way.
And you feel that at
every cell of your body.
And you can release the fear,
because you are now protected.
And you're feeling
that feeling as you're
sitting here in your
most perfect ideal shape.
In your own time and space,
you can open your eyes
and know that forever
you're being guided now
to the most perfect ideal
life and fitness and existence
that you can possibly express.
[INHALES] [EXHALES]
Anybody feel any different?
I think there's-- personally,
I think there's no limit
to what's possible
through visualization.
And the more you do
visualizations like this,
the more powerful your mind
becomes and the more able
you are to get into that state.
It's like a muscle that
you train everyday,
until you have the power to
literally create anything
that you want.
I really believe that.
And I've seen that in my life.
But even if I'm wrong about
all of that, at the very least,
you cannot deny that
you feel less stressful.
And simply feeling
less stressful
will enable you to lose weight.
So your downside is
that you'll lose weight.
[LAUGHTER]
Your upside is that
you will totally
transform every aspect
of your existence,
and have the power to do so, and
achieve amazing things in life.
There is no limit.
And I'm sure of that.
We'll take a break for lunch
for an hour, I guess till 2:45.
So just an hour lunch.
And when you come back, I have
a milkshake waiting for you.
So don't eat too much.
And we'll talk about how
to apply this to kids.
And we'll also put
it all together
and answer any
questions you have.
So enjoy your lunch.
Thanks.
[APPLAUSE]
>> I'm finding this
a real revelation.
It's not as if I haven't
heard a lot of this before,
but I think I'm
finally hearing it.
And he has a marvelous
way of actually presenting
the information.
I've done a lot of
meditation in my life,
and I do it on a daily basis.
But the meditation I just had
was absolutely miraculous.
And especially the imagery
of the angel wings, I
find really just a true
revelation to myself.
So this has been a
fantastic session.
>> The meditation,
visualization, yeah.
It's unreal.
I don't know.
I got very emotional.
And I just now was touching
my buttons and my cells.
And it was just like,
this is going to work.